---
sidebar_position: 4
id: faq
title: FAQ
---

### What are the technical risks that you cover for?

Solace coverage products cover technical risk or smart contract exploits and hacks. These include all of the following.

1. Minting vulnerabilities
2. Flash loan attack
3. Trojan fake tokens
4. Proxy/Upgradable contract manipulation
5. Math error
6. Re-entrance attacks

Learn more about Solace’s qualifiable loss events in the Terms and Conditions [here](https://www.notion.so/Solace-Native-Terms-Conditions-7432cc0981e64eabb37994e66e578d2b).


### What does the Solace Risk Management team control?

The Solace Risk Management team sets what DApps are approved for Insurance Gauges, determine the premium rate per DApp gauge, what tokens can be deposited into the underwriting pool, and the maximum exposure allowed for each token in the pool.

Premium rates can change as DApps either improve, or worsen, their security practices and prevention mechanisms.

### How do DApps participate in the governance process?

DApps participate by:

1. depositing capital into an underwriter lock
2. choosing their lock length
3. voting during each epoch

Votes can be set once to be the same vote each epoch, and it must be set to be the default voting behavior.

DApps are also encouraged to invite other participants outside of their own DApp to join Native through depositing into other underwriter locks and voting for their DApp Insurance Gauge.

### How does Native assess risk?

The Solace Risk Management team determines annual premium rate through the risk pipeline, which builds risk loads using protocol data, current exploit data, and expert judgment. 


## How does Native determine coverage value?

There are two things that come into play when Solace proposes a coverage limit:

1. List of token holders by contract(s) 
2. Balances per holder 

Once we have the overview of token holders and balances, we will submit our suggestion for a coverage limit that will cover as many of your users as possible.

:::note

Our research shows that more than 80% of a DApps users can be covered completely with a coverage limit of 10,000 USD per user. 

:::

In the end, it is up to the individual DApp to assess how high the coverage limit they would like to target.

## What is the Underwriting Pool?

The underwriting pool (UWP) is a single capital pool, housing multiple tokens similar to a token set. Solace uses the UWP as the reserve capital to offer insurance. Adding liquidity to the pool gives you voting power to decide where the insurance capacity is allocated to.

## What is the difference between UWE and UWP?
The underwriting pool represent assets. Those assets are not used directly to pay out claims nor get liquidated in that scenario, they are utilized as collateral to take out stablecoin loans and pay valid claims. Therefore, a concept of underwriting equity, assets less liabilities, is used in direct underwriting. While each claim reduces the value of equity in the immediate term, the float from premiums will cover the losses over a longer time frame (risk modeling targets net zero yield through premiums over 1 year, in the worst-case scenario). Hence, **$UWE** as an asset is more stable over longer lock-up periods, and can in-turn appreciate in market value similar to an index fund.

## Where and how are the underwriting funds stored?

All deposited tokens are stored in the underwriting pool (UWP), minting $UWE tokens (Underwriting Equity) to depositors and locked into the underwriting locks.

## How are premiums charged?

All locks pay after each epoch. Solace withdraws UWE tokens from each lock based on the DApp’s premium rate multiplied by their coverage value during that epoch.

> **_💡  EXAMPLE:_**  
If a DApp gets $2M in coverage value and has a 2% annual premium, their annual premium would be $40,000. If epochs are monthly, it would be $40,000 / 12 = **$3,333.33.**

## What if your DApp gets rekt?
 
When a qualified on-chain exploit occurs, the affected DApp submits post-mortem for a review and Solace pays out the protocol (or directly affected users) based on the insurance capacity voted to that DApp’s insurance gauge in that epoch. Claims can be disputed in case of a disagreement through a 3rd party, not affiliated with Solace (current implementation will utilize UMA to disputes arbitrage).


## Where does the money for payments come from?

When a shortfall event occurs, Solace does not sell deposited tokens in the underwriting pool. It is ideal to prevent negative sell pressure, especially in times of distress. Instead, Solace takes out a loan against the token set from the pool and provides the payout in stables. Upon receipt of the loaned stablecoins, the payout to the protocol is made immediately. Such payout can be transferred as soon as the shortfall event is analysed and post-mortem has been published.